



Network Working Group                                        A. Dulaunoy
Internet-Draft                                                 A. Iklody
Intended status: Informational                                     CIRCL
Expires: October 12, 2018                                 April 10, 2018


                      MISP object template format
               draft-dulaunoy-misp-object-template-format

Abstract

   This document describes the MISP object template format which
   describes a simple JSON format to represent the various templates
   used to construct MISP objects.  A public directory of common
   vocabularies MISP object templates [MISP-O] is available and relies
   on the MISP object reference format.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on October 12, 2018.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2018 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.



Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018                [Page 1]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
     1.1.  Conventions and Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
   2.  Format  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
     2.1.  Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
       2.1.1.  Object Template . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
       2.1.2.  attributes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
       2.1.3.  Sample Object Template object . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
       2.1.4.  Object Relationships  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
   3.  Directory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
     3.1.  Existing and public MISP object templates . . . . . . . .  10
   4.  Acknowledgements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
   5.  References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
     5.1.  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
     5.2.  Informative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19

1.  Introduction

   Due to the increased maturity of threat information sharing, the need
   arose for more complex and exhaustive data-points to be shared across
   the various sharing communities.  MISP's information sharing in
   general relied on a flat structure of attributes contained within an
   event, where attributes served as atomic secluded data-points with
   some commonalities as defined by the encapsulating event.  However,
   this flat structure restricted the use of more diverse and complex
   data-points described by a list of atomic values, a problem solved by
   the MISP object structure.

   MISP objects combine a list of attributes to represent a singular
   object with various facets.  In order to bootstrap the object
   creation process and to maintain uniformity among objects describing
   similar data-points, the MISP object template format serves as a
   reusable and share-able blueprint format.

   MISP object templates also include a vocabulary to describe the
   various inter object and object to attribute relationships and are
   leveraged by MISP object references.

1.1.  Conventions and Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [RFC2119].






Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018                [Page 2]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


2.  Format

   MISP object templates are composed of the MISP object template (MUST)
   structure itself and a list of MISP object template elements (SHOULD)
   describing the list of possible attributes belonging to the resulting
   object, along with their context and settings.

   MISP object templates themselves consist of a name (MUST), a meta-
   category (MUST) and a description (SHOULD).  They are identified by a
   uuid (MUST) and a version (MUST).  For any updates or transfer of the
   same object reference.  UUID version 4 is RECOMMENDED when assigning
   it to a new object reference.  The list of requirements when it comes
   to the contained MISP object template elements is defined in the
   requirements field (OPTIONAL).

   MISP object template elements consist of an object_relation (MUST), a
   type (MUST), an object_template_id (SHOULD), a ui_priority (SHOULD),
   a list of categories (MAY), a list of sane_default values (MAY) or a
   values_list (MAY).

2.1.  Overview

   The MISP object template format uses the JSON [RFC4627] format.  Each
   template is represented as a JSON object with meta information
   including the following fields: uuid, requiredOneOf, description,
   version, meta-category, name.

2.1.1.  Object Template

2.1.1.1.  uuid

   uuid represents the Universally Unique IDentifier (UUID) [RFC4122] of
   the object template.  The uuid MUST be preserved for to keep
   consistency of the templates across instances.  UUID version 4 is
   RECOMMENDED when assigning it to a new object template.

   uuid is represented as a JSON string. uuid MUST be present.

2.1.1.2.  requiredOneOf

   requiredOneOf is represented as a JSON list and contains a list of
   attribute relationships of which one must be present in the object to
   be created based on the given template.  The requiredOneOf field MAY
   be present.







Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018                [Page 3]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


2.1.1.3.  required

   required is represented as a JSON list and contains a list of
   attribute relationships of which all must be present in the object to
   be created based on the given template.  The required field MAY be
   present.

2.1.1.4.  description

   description is represented as a JSON string and contains the assigned
   meaning given to objects created using this template.  The
   description field MUST be present.

2.1.1.5.  version

   version represents a numeric incrementing version of the object
   template.  It is used to associate the object to the correct version
   of the template and together with the uuid field forms an association
   to the correct template type and version.

   version is represented as a JSON string. version MUST be present.

2.1.1.6.  meta-category

   meta-category represents the sub-category of objects that the given
   object template belongs to. meta-categories are not tied to a fixed
   list of options but can be created on the fly.

   meta-category is represented as a JSON string. meta-category MUST be
   present.

2.1.1.7.  name

   name represents the human-readable name of the objects created using
   the given template, describing the intent of the object package.

   name is represented as a JSON string. name MUST be present

2.1.2.  attributes

   attributes is represented as a JSON list and contains a list of
   template elements used as a template for creating the individual
   attributes within the object that is to be created with the object.

   attributes is represented as a JSON list. attributes MUST be present.






Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018                [Page 4]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


2.1.2.1.  description

   description is represented as a JSON string and contains the
   description of the given attribute in the context of the object with
   the given relationship.  The description field MUST be present.

2.1.2.2.  ui-priority

   ui-priority is represented by a numeric values in JSON string format
   and is meant to provide a priority for the given element in the
   object template visualisation.  The ui-priority MAY be present.

2.1.2.3.  misp-attribute

   misp-attribute is represented by a JSON string or a JSON object with
   a list of values.  The value(s) are taken from the pool of types
   defined by the MISP core format's Attribute Object's type list. type
   can contain a JSON object with a list of suggested value alternatives
   encapsulated in a list within a sane_default key or a list of
   enforced value alternatives encapsulated in a list_values key.

   The misp-attribute field MUST be present.

2.1.2.4.  disable_correlation

   disable_correlation is represented by a JSON boolean.  The
   disable_correlation field flags the attribute(s) created by the given
   object template element to be marked as non correlating.

   The misp-attribute field MAY be present.

2.1.2.5.  categories

   categories is represented by a JSON list containing one or several
   valid options from the list of verbs valid for the category field in
   the Attribute object within the MISP core format.

   The categories field MAY be present.

2.1.2.6.  multiple

   multiple is represented by a JSON boolean value.  It marks the MISP
   object template element as a multiple input field, allowing for
   several attributes to be created by the element within the same
   object.

   The multiple field MAY be present.




Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018                [Page 5]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


2.1.2.7.  sane_default

   sane_default is represented by a JSON list containing one or several
   recommended/sane values for an attribute. sane_default is mutually
   exclusive with values_list.

   The sane_default field MAY be present.

2.1.2.8.  values_list

   values_list is represented by a JSON List containing one or several
   of fixed values for an attribute. values_list is mutually exclusive
   with sane_default.

   The value_list field MAY be present.

2.1.3.  Sample Object Template object

   The MISP object template directory is publicly available [MISP-O] in
   a git repository and contains more than 60 object templates.  As
   illustration, two sample objects templates are included.

2.1.3.1.  credit-card object template




























Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018                [Page 6]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


{
  "requiredOneOf": [
    "cc-number"
  ],
  "attributes": {
    "version": {
      "description": "Version of the card.",
      "ui-priority": 0,
      "misp-attribute": "text"
    },
    "comment": {
      "description": "A description of the card.",
      "ui-priority": 0,
      "misp-attribute": "comment"
    },
    "card-security-code": {
      "description": "Card security code (CSC, CVD, CVV, CVC and SPC) as embossed or printed on the card.",
      "ui-priority": 0,
      "misp-attribute": "text"
    },
    "name": {
      "description": "Name of the card owner.",
      "ui-priority": 0,
      "misp-attribute": "text"
    },
    "issued": {
      "description": "Initial date of validity or issued date.",
      "ui-priority": 0,
      "misp-attribute": "datetime"
    },
    "expiration": {
      "description": "Maximum date of validity",
      "ui-priority": 0,
      "misp-attribute": "datetime"
    },
    "cc-number": {
      "description": "credit-card number as encoded on the card.",
      "ui-priority": 0,
      "misp-attribute": "cc-number"
    }
  },
  "version": 2,
  "description": "A payment card like credit card, debit card or any similar cards which can be used for financial transactions.",
  "meta-category": "financial",
  "uuid": "2b9c57aa-daba-4330-a738-56f18743b0c7",
  "name": "credit-card"
}




Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018                [Page 7]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


2.1.3.2.  credential object template

{
  "requiredOneOf": [
    "password"
  ],
  "attributes": {
    "text": {
      "description": "A description of the credential(s)",
      "disable_correlation": true,
      "ui-priority": 1,
      "misp-attribute": "text"
    },
    "username": {
      "description": "Username related to the password(s)",
      "ui-priority": 1,
      "misp-attribute": "text"
    },
    "password": {
      "description": "Password",
      "multiple": true,
      "ui-priority": 1,
      "misp-attribute": "text"
    },
    "type": {
      "description": "Type of password(s)",
      "ui-priority": 1,
      "misp-attribute": "text",
      "values_list": [
        "password",
        "api-key",
        "encryption-key",
        "unknown"
      ]
    },
    "origin": {
      "description": "Origin of the credential(s)",
      "ui-priority": 1,
      "misp-attribute": "text",
      "sane_default": [
        "bruteforce-scanning",
        "malware-analysis",
        "memory-analysis",
        "network-analysis",
        "leak",
        "unknown"
      ]
    },



Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018                [Page 8]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


    "format": {
      "description": "Format of the password(s)",
      "ui-priority": 1,
      "misp-attribute": "text",
      "values_list": [
        "clear-text",
        "hashed",
        "encrypted",
        "unknown"
      ]
    },
    "notification": {
      "description": "Mention of any notification(s) towards the potential owner(s) of the credential(s)",
      "ui-priority": 1,
      "misp-attribute": "text",
      "multiple": true,
      "values_list": [
        "victim-notified",
        "service-notified",
        "none"
      ]
    }
  },
  "version": 2,
  "description": "Credential describes one or more credential(s) including password(s), api key(s) or decryption key(s).",
  "meta-category": "misc",
  "uuid": "a27e98c9-9b0e-414c-8076-d201e039ca09",
  "name": "credential"
}

2.1.4.  Object Relationships

2.1.4.1.  name

   name represents the human-readable relationship type which can be
   used when creating MISP object relations.

   name is represented as a JSON string. name MUST be present.

2.1.4.2.  description

   description is represented as a JSON string and contains the
   description of the object relationship type.  The description field
   MUST be present.







Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018                [Page 9]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


2.1.4.3.  format

   format is represented by a JSON list containing a list of formats
   that the relationship type is valid for and can be mapped to.  The
   format field MUST be present.

3.  Directory

   The MISP object template directory is publicly available [MISP-O] in
   a git repository.  The repository contains an objects directory,
   which contains a directory per object type, containing a file named
   definition.json which contains the definition of the object template
   in the above described format.

   A relationships directory is also included, containing a
   definition.json file which contains a list of MISP object relation
   definitions.  There are more than 125 existing templates object
   documented in [MISP-O-DOC].

3.1.  Existing and public MISP object templates

   o  tsk-chats - An Object Template to gather information from
      evidential or interesting exchange of messages identified during a
      digital forensic investigation.

   o  tsk-web-bookmark - An Object Template to add evidential bookmarks
      identified during a digital forensic investigation.

   o  tsk-web-cookie - An TSK-Autopsy Object Template to represent
      cookies identified during a forensic investigation.

   o  tsk-web-downloads - An Object Template to add web-downloads.

   o  tsk-web-history - An Object Template to share web history
      information.

   o  tsk-web-search-query - An Object Template to share web search
      query information.

   o  ail-leak - An information leak as defined by the AIL Analysis
      Information Leak framework.

   o  ais-info - Automated Indicator Sharing (AIS) Information Source
      Markings.

   o  android-permission - A set of android permissions - one or more
      permission(s) which can be linked to other objects (e.g. malware,
      app).



Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018               [Page 10]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


   o  annotation - An annotation object allowing analysts to add
      annotations, comments, executive summary to a MISP event, objects
      or attributes.

   o  anonymisation - Anonymisation object describing an anonymisation
      technique used to encode MISP attribute values.  Reference:
      <https://www.caida.org/tools/taxonomy/anonymization.xml>.

   o  asn - Autonomous system object describing an autonomous system
      which can include one or more network operators management an
      entity (e.g.  ISP) along with their routing policy, routing
      prefixes or alike.

   o  authenticode-signerinfo - Authenticode Signer Info.

   o  av-signature - Antivirus detection signature.

   o  bank-account - An object describing bank account information based
      on account description from goAML 4.0.

   o  bgp-hijack - Object encapsulating BGP Hijack description as
      specified, for example, by bgpstream.com.

   o  cap-alert - Common Alerting Protocol Version (CAP) alert object.

   o  cap-info - Common Alerting Protocol Version (CAP) info object.

   o  cap-resource - Common Alerting Protocol Version (CAP) resource
      object.

   o  coin-address - An address used in a cryptocurrency.

   o  cookie - An HTTP cookie (web cookie, browser cookie) is a small
      piece of data that a server sends to the user's web browser.  The
      browser may store it and send it back with the next request to the
      same server.  Typically, it's used to tell if two requests came
      from the same browser -- keeping a user logged-in, for example.
      It remembers stateful information for the stateless HTTP protocol.
      (as defined by the Mozilla foundation.

   o  cortex - Cortex object describing a complete cortex analysis.
      Observables would be attribute with a relationship from this
      object.

   o  cortex-taxonomy - Cortex object describing an Cortex Taxonomy (or
      mini report).





Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018               [Page 11]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


   o  course-of-action - An object describing a specific measure taken
      to prevent or respond to an attack.

   o  cowrie - Cowrie honeypot object template.

   o  credential - Credential describes one or more credential(s)
      including password(s), api key(s) or decryption key(s).

   o  credit-card - A payment card like credit card, debit card or any
      similar cards which can be used for financial transactions.

   o  ddos - DDoS object describes a current DDoS activity from a
      specific or/and to a specific target.  Type of DDoS can be
      attached to the object as a taxonomy.

   o  device - An object to define a device.

   o  diameter-attack - Attack as seen on diameter authentication
      against a GSM, UMTS or LTE network.

   o  domain-ip - A domain and IP address seen as a tuple in a specific
      time frame.

   o  elf - Object describing a Executable and Linkable Format.

   o  elf-section - Object describing a section of an Executable and
      Linkable Format.

   o  email - Email object describing an email with meta-information.

   o  exploit-poc - Exploit-poc object describing a proof of concept or
      exploit of a vulnerability.  This object has often a relationship
      with a vulnerability object.

   o  facial-composite - An object which describes a facial composite.

   o  fail2ban - Fail2ban event.

   o  file - File object describing a file with meta-information.

   o  forensic-case - An object template to describe a digital forensic
      case.

   o  forensic-evidence - An object template to describe a digital
      forensic evidence.

   o  geolocation - An object to describe a geographic location.




Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018               [Page 12]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


   o  gtp-attack - GTP attack object as seen on a GSM, UMTS or LTE
      network.

   o  http-request - A single HTTP request header.

   o  ilr-impact - Institut Luxembourgeois de Regulation - Impact.

   o  ilr-notification-incident - Institut Luxembourgeois de Regulation
      - Notification d'incident.

   o  internal-reference - Internal reference.

   o  interpol-notice - An object which describes a Interpol notice.

   o  ip-api-address - IP Address information.  Useful if you are
      pulling your ip information from ip-api.com.

   o  ip-port - An IP address (or domain or hostname) and a port seen as
      a tuple (or as a triple) in a specific time frame.

   o  irc - An IRC object to describe an IRC server and the associated
      channels.

   o  ja3 - JA3 is a new technique for creating SSL client fingerprints
      that are easy to produce and can be easily shared for threat
      intelligence.  Fingerprints are composed of Client Hello packet;
      SSL Version, Accepted Ciphers, List of Extensions, Elliptic
      Curves, and Elliptic Curve Formats.
      <https://github.com/salesforce/ja3>.

   o  legal-entity - An object to describe a legal entity.

   o  lnk - LNK object describing a Windows LNK binary file (aka Windows
      shortcut).

   o  macho - Object describing a file in Mach-O format.

   o  macho-section - Object describing a section of a file in Mach-O
      format.

   o  mactime-timeline-analysis - Mactime template, used in forensic
      investigations to describe the timeline of a file activity.

   o  malware-config - Malware configuration recovered or extracted from
      a malicious binary.

   o  microblog - Microblog post like a Twitter tweet or a post on a
      Facebook wall.



Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018               [Page 13]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


   o  mutex - Object to describe mutual exclusion locks (mutex) as seen
      in memory or computer program.

   o  netflow - Netflow object describes an network object based on the
      Netflowv5/v9 minimal definition.

   o  network-connection - A local or remote network connection.

   o  network-socket - Network socket object describes a local or remote
      network connections based on the socket data structure.

   o  misc - An object which describes an organization.

   o  original-imported-file - Object describing the original file used
      to import data in MISP.

   o  passive-dns - Passive DNS records as expressed in draft-dulaunoy-
      dnsop-passive-dns-cof-01.

   o  paste - Paste or similar post from a website allowing to share
      privately or publicly posts.

   o  pcap-metadata - Network packet capture metadata.

   o  pe - Object describing a Portable Executable.

   o  pe-section - Object describing a section of a Portable Executable.

   o  person - An object which describes a person or an identity.

   o  phishing - Phishing template to describe a phishing website and
      its analysis.

   o  phishing-kit - Object to describe a phishing-kit.

   o  phone - A phone or mobile phone object which describe a phone.

   o  process - Object describing a system process.

   o  python-etvx-event-log - Event log object template to share
      information of the activities conducted on a system. .

   o  r2graphity - Indicators extracted from files using radare2 and
      graphml.

   o  regexp - An object describing a regular expression (regex or
      regexp).  The object can be linked via a relationship to other




Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018               [Page 14]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


      attributes or objects to describe how it can be represented as a
      regular expression.

   o  registry-key - Registry key object describing a Windows registry
      key with value and last-modified timestamp.

   o  regripper-NTUser - Regripper Object template designed to present
      user specific configuration details extracted from the NTUSER.dat
      hive.

   o  regripper-sam-hive-single-user - Regripper Object template
      designed to present user profile details extracted from the SAM
      hive.

   o  regripper-sam-hive-user-group - Regripper Object template designed
      to present group profile details extracted from the SAM hive.

   o  regripper-software-hive-BHO - Regripper Object template designed
      to gather information of the browser helper objects installed on
      the system.

   o  regripper-software-hive-appInit-DLLS - Regripper Object template
      designed to gather information of the DLL files installed on the
      system.

   o  regripper-software-hive-application-paths - Regripper Object
      template designed to gather information of the application paths.

   o  regripper-software-hive-applications-installed - Regripper Object
      template designed to gather information of the applications
      installed on the system.

   o  regripper-software-hive-command-shell - Regripper Object template
      designed to gather information of the shell commands executed on
      the system.

   o  regripper-software-hive-windows-general-info - Regripper Object
      template designed to gather general windows information extracted
      from the software-hive.

   o  regripper-software-hive-software-run - Regripper Object template
      designed to gather information of the applications set to run on
      the system.

   o  regripper-software-hive-userprofile-winlogon - Regripper Object
      template designed to gather user profile information when the user
      logs onto the system, gathered from the software hive.




Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018               [Page 15]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


   o  regripper-system-hive-firewall-configuration - Regripper Object
      template designed to present firewall configuration information
      extracted from the system-hive.

   o  regripper-system-hive-general-configuration - Regripper Object
      template designed to present general system properties extracted
      from the system-hive.

   o  regripper-system-hive-network-information. - Regripper object
      template designed to gather network information from the system-
      hive.

   o  regripper-system-hive-services-drivers - Regripper Object template
      designed to gather information regarding the services/drivers from
      the system-hive.

   o  report - Metadata used to generate an executive level report.

   o  research-scanner - Information related to known scanning activity
      (e.g. from research projects).

   o  rogue-dns - Rogue DNS as defined by CERT.br.

   o  rtir - RTIR - Request Tracker for Incident Response.

   o  sandbox-report - Sandbox report.

   o  sb-signature - Sandbox detection signature.

   o  script - Object describing a computer program written to be run in
      a special run-time environment.  The script or shell script can be
      used for malicious activities but also as support tools for threat
      analysts.

   o  shell-commands - Object describing a series of shell commands
      executed.  This object can be linked with malicious files in order
      to describe a specific execution of shell commands.

   o  short-message-service - Short Message Service (SMS) object
      template describing one or more SMS message.  Restriction of the
      initial format 3GPP 23.038 GSM character set doesn't apply.

   o  shortened-link - Shortened link and its redirect target.

   o  splunk - Splunk / Splunk ES object.

   o  ss7-attack - SS7 object of an attack seen on a GSM, UMTS or LTE
      network via SS7 logging.



Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018               [Page 16]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


   o  ssh-authorized-keys - An object to store ssh authorized keys file.

   o  stix2-pattern - An object describing a STIX pattern.  The object
      can be linked via a relationship to other attributes or objects to
      describe how it can be represented as a STIX pattern.

   o  suricata - An object describing one or more Suricata rule(s) along
      with version and contextual information.

   o  target-system - Description about an targeted system, this could
      potentially be a compromissed internal system.

   o  threatgrid-report - ThreatGrid report.

   o  timecode - Timecode object to describe a start of video sequence
      (e.g.  CCTV evidence) and the end of the video sequence.

   o  timesketch-timeline - A timesketch timeline object based on
      mandatory field in timesketch to describe a log entry.

   o  timesketch_message - A timesketch message entry.

   o  timestamp - A generic timestamp object to represent time including
      first time and last time seen.  Relationship will then define the
      kind of time relationship.

   o  tor-hiddenservice - Tor hidden service (onion service) object.

   o  tor-node - Tor node (which protects your privacy on the internet
      by hiding the connection between users Internet address and the
      services used by the users) description which are part of the Tor
      network at a time.

   o  tracking-id - Analytics and tracking ID such as used in Google
      Analytics or other analytic platform.

   o  transaction - An object to describe a financial transaction.

   o  url - url object describes an url along with its normalized field
      (like extracted using faup parsing library) and its metadata.

   o  vehicle - Vehicle object template to describe a vehicle
      information and registration.

   o  victim - Victim object describes the target of an attack or abuse.

   o  virustotal-report - VirusTotal report.




Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018               [Page 17]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


   o  vulnerability - Vulnerability object describing a common
      vulnerability enumeration which can describe published,
      unpublished, under review or embargo vulnerability for software,
      equipments or hardware.

   o  whois - Whois records information for a domain name or an IP
      address.

   o  x509 - x509 object describing a X.509 certificate.

   o  yabin - yabin.py generates Yara rules from function prologs, for
      matching and hunting binaries. ref: <https://github.com/
      AlienVault-OTX/yabin>.

   o  yara - An object describing a YARA rule along with its version.

4.  Acknowledgements

   The authors wish to thank all the MISP community who are supporting
   the creation of open standards in threat intelligence sharing.

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC4122]  Leach, P., Mealling, M., and R. Salz, "A Universally
              Unique IDentifier (UUID) URN Namespace", RFC 4122,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC4122, July 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4122>.

   [RFC4627]  Crockford, D., "The application/json Media Type for
              JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)", RFC 4627,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC4627, July 2006,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4627>.

5.2.  Informative References

   [MISP-O]   MISP, "MISP Objects - shared and common object templates",
              <https://github.com/MISP/misp-objects>.

   [MISP-O-DOC]
              "MISP objects directory", 2018,
              <https://www.misp-project.org/objects.html>.



Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018               [Page 18]

Internet-Draft         MISP object template format            April 2018


Authors' Addresses

   Alexandre Dulaunoy
   Computer Incident Response Center Luxembourg
   16, bd d'Avranches
   Luxembourg  L-1611
   Luxembourg

   Phone: +352 247 88444
   Email: alexandre.dulaunoy@circl.lu


   Andras Iklody
   Computer Incident Response Center Luxembourg
   16, bd d'Avranches
   Luxembourg  L-1611
   Luxembourg

   Phone: +352 247 88444
   Email: andras.iklody@circl.lu































Dulaunoy & Iklody       Expires October 12, 2018               [Page 19]
